I’m just gonna preface this by saying don’t read this, it’s long and I’m just ranting.
Let me just say, Kurt Thompson is one of the most vile, egotistical trumpet players I have ever heard, and a total bigot.
His playing is okay at best. He can get up there, but it sounds like shit. No consistency or good sound articulation, and he’s not good enough to have a style. The only thing he can do is play relatively high, otherwise he sounds like a goddamn 3rd grader.
You wouldn’t be able to tell by his ego however, which is on a level I have never seen before. His ego passes that if any player I’ve ever seen and he appears to believe he is better than even Wayne Bergeron or Allen Vizzuti, saying that he leaves them all behind while playing his “quadruple g” (which is perhaps the most bullshit thing I’ve ever heard). And his ego makes him loud and annoying, and it makes young inexperienced folk listen to him.
Which brings me to the worst part about him, his method. Because he can play high, that means young players thinks he’s amazing and will listen to what he says. And what he says is breeding the worst breed of trumpet players I have ever heard. I recently did a camp with some high school kids over the summer and judged their playing and attempted to help hem but they were some of the most unbearable children I’ve ever met. They repeated everything Kurt had ever said in his methods which is just total bs and makes no sense, and when I tried to get them on track to play decently they all asked how high I could play, and when I would not honor such a dumb question, they attempted to show me his method, that has made them all just terrible musicians. He markets to young kids that don’t know any better by flaunting his one ok talent, and it is giving them massive egos, a terrible view of the instrument, and none of them will let go.
On top of that, he will do anything to sell his method. In a video description, he said that women aren’t as good at screaming trumpet and that the only thing to fix that was his course. That makes me sick. Calling women bad at trumpet and then trying to sell bullshit to make them better? That’s sexist and a shitty thing to do. He has called out other players by name and called them terrible and then tried to sell. He has squeaked a high note and tried to sell. He released perhaps the most egregious recording of MacArthur park and tried to sell because of that. I don’t know where I’m going with this, I got sidetracked, but this dude just fuckijg sucks.
TLDR; fuck Kurt Thompson, a shitty player and an even shittier person.